semantic-kernel/get-started/tutorials.md, before:

---
title: Semantic Kernel Recipes (Experiment)
description: Experimental Semantic Kernel Recipes 
author: johnmaeda
ms.topic: get-started
ms.author: johnmaeda
ms.date: 02/07/2023
ms.service: mssearch
---

# Get in-depth learning for Semantic Kernel


[!INCLUDE [subheader.md](../includes/pat_large.md)]

Want to learn more about Semantic Kernel? Check out these in-depth tutorials and videos. We will add more content over time from our team and community, so check back often! 



## Video tutorials
The following guided walkthroughs are available for you to learn more about Semantic Kernel.

### Ready to cook with Semantic Kernel?
How would you like to solve gnarly design problems in seconds instead of hours? How about running a full-fledged design thinking workshop in less than a minute? With Large Language Model (LLM) AI, you can start do all that and more. You can also create your own AI plugins to enhance your expertise and adapt to the changing needs of design in the era of AI. Learn how to supercharge your problem-solving creativity with Semantic Kernel running on your own machine just like your own “Easy Bake Oven.” We’ll use plenty of cooking analogies to land the core ideas of LLM AI running on Semantic Kernel so be prepared to get hungry!

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Start the tutorial](https://aka.ms/sk/recipes)

### More tutorials coming soon
If you have a tutorial you would like to share, please let us know on our [Discord server](https://aka.ms/sk/discord). We would love to highlight your content with the community here!

Commit message:

Adding missing features in docs

semantic-kernel/get-started/tutorials.md, after:

---
title: Semantic Kernel Recipes (Experiment)
description: Experimental Semantic Kernel Recipes 
author: johnmaeda
ms.topic: get-started
ms.author: johnmaeda
ms.date: 02/07/2023
ms.service: mssearch
---

# Get in-depth learning for Semantic Kernel


[!INCLUDE [subheader.md](../includes/pat_large.md)]

Want to learn more about Semantic Kernel? Check out these in-depth tutorials and videos. We will add more content over time from our team and community, so check back often! 



## Tutorials
The following guided walkthroughs are available for you to learn more about Semantic Kernel.

### Ready to cook with Semantic Kernel?
How would you like to solve gnarly design problems in seconds instead of hours? How about running a full-fledged design thinking workshop in less than a minute? With Large Language Model (LLM) AI, you can start do all that and more. You can also create your own AI plugins to enhance your expertise and adapt to the changing needs of design in the era of AI. Learn how to supercharge your problem-solving creativity with Semantic Kernel running on your own machine just like your own “Easy Bake Oven.” We’ll use plenty of cooking analogies to land the core ideas of LLM AI running on Semantic Kernel so be prepared to get hungry!

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Start the tutorial](https://aka.ms/sk/recipes)

### Kernel syntax examples
This project contains a collection of .NET examples for various scenarios using Semantic Kernel components. There are already 40 examples that show how to achieve basic tasks like creating a chain, adding a plugin, and running a chain. There are also more advanced examples that show how to use the Semantic Kernel API to create a custom plugin, stream data, and more.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Start the tutorial](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel/tree/main/samples/dotnet/kernel-syntax-examples)

### More tutorials coming soon
If you have a tutorial you would like to share, please let us know on our [Discord server](https://aka.ms/sk/discord). We would love to highlight your content with the community here!
