semantic-kernel/support/faqs.md, before:

---
title: Frequently Asked Questions about Semantic Kernel
description: Frequently Asked Questions about Semantic Kernel
author: evchaki
ms.topic: faq
ms.author: evchaki
ms.date: 02/07/2023
ms.service: mssearch
---
# Semantic Kernel FAQ's


[!INCLUDE [subheader.md](../includes/pat_large.md)]

## Why is the Kernel only in C# and Python?
C# is a popular coding language.  We wanted to make sure we could support one language before turning our attention to other languages. And we've included [preview Python support](https://aka.ms/sk/python) to evaluate community interest there. Additional language support for the kernel will come based on feedback.

## Where are the sample plugins?
We have [sample apps](/semantic-kernel/samples) and plugins you can try out so you can quickly learn the concepts of Semantic Kernel.

## How do I get help or provide feedback?

There are a variety of [support options available](/semantic-kernel/support)!

## Is something up with my OpenAI or Azure OpenAI key?

Depending upon the model you are trying to access, there may be times when your key may not work because of high demand. Or, because your access to the model is limited by the plan you're currently signed up for — so-called "throttling". In general, however, your key will work according to the plan agreement with your LLM AI provider. 

## Why aren't my Jupyter notebooks coming up in my VSCode or Visual Studio?

First of all, you'll need to be running locally on your own machine to interact with the Jupyter notebooks. If you've already cleared that hurdle, then all you need to do is to install the [Polyglot Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.dotnet-interactive-vscode) which requires .NET 7 to be installed. For complete information on the latest release of Polyglot Extension you can learn more [here](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/polyglot-notebooks-december-2022-release/).

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Get more support](/semantic-kernel/support)

Commit message:

Adding missing features in docs

semantic-kernel/support/faqs.md, after:

---
title: Frequently Asked Questions about Semantic Kernel
description: Frequently Asked Questions about Semantic Kernel
author: evchaki
ms.topic: faq
ms.author: evchaki
ms.date: 02/07/2023
ms.service: mssearch
---
# Semantic Kernel FAQ's


[!INCLUDE [subheader.md](../includes/pat_large.md)]

## Why is the Kernel only in C# and Python?
Both C# and Python are popular coding language and we're actively adding additional languages based on community feedback. Both [Java](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel/tree/experimental-java) and [Typescript](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel/tree/experimental-typescript) are on our roadmap and being actively developed in experimental branches.

## Where are the sample plugins?
We have [sample apps](/semantic-kernel/samples) and plugins you can try out so you can quickly learn the concepts of Semantic Kernel.

## How do I get help or provide feedback?

There are a variety of [support options available](/semantic-kernel/support)!

## Is something up with my OpenAI or Azure OpenAI key?

Depending upon the model you are trying to access, there may be times when your key may not work because of high demand. Or, because your access to the model is limited by the plan you're currently signed up for — so-called "throttling". In general, however, your key will work according to the plan agreement with your LLM AI provider. 

## Why aren't my Jupyter notebooks coming up in my VSCode or Visual Studio?

First of all, you'll need to be running locally on your own machine to interact with the Jupyter notebooks. If you've already cleared that hurdle, then all you need to do is to install the [Polyglot Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.dotnet-interactive-vscode) which requires .NET 7 to be installed. For complete information on the latest release of Polyglot Extension you can learn more [here](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/polyglot-notebooks-december-2022-release/).

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Get more support](/semantic-kernel/support)
