semantic-kernel/Frameworks/process/process-best-practices.md, before:

---
title: Process Framework Best Practices
description: Details on the Best Practices in the Processes Framework from Semantic Kernel
zone_pivot_groups: 
author: evchaki            
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.author: evchaki   
ms.date: 09/28/2024
ms.service: semantic-kernel
---

# Best Practices for the Process Framework

Utilizing the Process Framework effectively can significantly enhance your workflow automation. Here are some best practices to help you optimize your implementation and avoid common pitfalls.

### File and Folder Layout Structure
Organizing your project files in a logical and maintainable structure is crucial for collaboration and scalability. A recommended file layout may include:

- **Processes/:** A directory for all defined processes.
- **Steps/:** A dedicated directory for reusable Steps.
- **Functions/:** A folder containing your Kernel Function definitions.

An organized structure not only simplifies navigation within the project but also enhances code reusability and facilitates collaboration among team members.


### Common Pitfalls
To ensure smooth implementation and operation of the Process Framework, be mindful of these common pitfalls to avoid:

- **Overcomplicating Steps:** Keep Steps focused on a single responsibility. Avoid creating complex Steps that perform multiple tasks, as this can complicate debugging and maintenance.
  
- **Ignoring Event Handling:** Events are vital for smooth communication between Steps. Ensure that you handle all potential events and errors within the process to prevent unexpected behavior or crashes.
  
- **Performance and Quality:** As processes scale, it’s crucial to continuously monitor performance. Leverage telemetry from your Steps to gain insights into how Processes are functioning.

By following these best practices, you can maximize the effectiveness of the Process Framework, enabling more robust and manageable workflows. Keeping organization, simplicity, and performance in mind will lead to a smoother development experience and higher-quality applications.

Commit message:

Update planner related docs now that they're removed from code. (#597)
* Update planner related docs now that they're removed from code.

* Fix zone pivots

* Add date to planner migration guide

* Provide link to lightsplugin lightmodel.

* Add comment about kernel isolation for processes.

semantic-kernel/Frameworks/process/process-best-practices.md, after:

---
title: Process Framework Best Practices
description: Details on the Best Practices in the Processes Framework from Semantic Kernel
zone_pivot_groups: 
author: evchaki            
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.author: evchaki   
ms.date: 09/28/2024
ms.service: semantic-kernel
---

# Best Practices for the Process Framework

Utilizing the Process Framework effectively can significantly enhance your workflow automation. Here are some best practices to help you optimize your implementation and avoid common pitfalls.

### File and Folder Layout Structure
Organizing your project files in a logical and maintainable structure is crucial for collaboration and scalability. A recommended file layout may include:

- **Processes/:** A directory for all defined processes.
- **Steps/:** A dedicated directory for reusable Steps.
- **Functions/:** A folder containing your Kernel Function definitions.

An organized structure not only simplifies navigation within the project but also enhances code reusability and facilitates collaboration among team members.

### Kernel Instance Isolation

> [!Important]
> Do not share a single Kernel instance between the main Process Framework and any of its dependencies (such as agents, tools, or external services). 

Sharing a Kernel across these components can result in unexpected recursive invocation patterns, including infinite loops, as functions registered in the Kernel may inadvertently invoke each other. For example, a Step may call a function that triggers an agent, which then re-invokes the same function, creating a non-terminating loop.

To avoid this, instantiate separate Kernel objects for each independent agent, tool, or service used within your process. This ensures isolation between the Process Framework’s own functions and those required by dependencies, and prevents cross-invocation that could destabilize your workflow. This requirement reflects a current architectural constraint and may be revisited as the framework evolves.

### Common Pitfalls
To ensure smooth implementation and operation of the Process Framework, be mindful of these common pitfalls to avoid:

- **Overcomplicating Steps:** Keep Steps focused on a single responsibility. Avoid creating complex Steps that perform multiple tasks, as this can complicate debugging and maintenance.
  
- **Ignoring Event Handling:** Events are vital for smooth communication between Steps. Ensure that you handle all potential events and errors within the process to prevent unexpected behavior or crashes.
  
- **Performance and Quality:** As processes scale, it’s crucial to continuously monitor performance. Leverage telemetry from your Steps to gain insights into how Processes are functioning.

By following these best practices, you can maximize the effectiveness of the Process Framework, enabling more robust and manageable workflows. Keeping organization, simplicity, and performance in mind will lead to a smoother development experience and higher-quality applications.
