semantic-kernel/Frameworks/agent/responses-agent.md, before:

---
title: Exploring the Semantic Kernel OpenAI Responses Agent
description: An exploration of the definition, behaviors, and usage patterns for a `OpenAIResponsesAgent`
zone_pivot_groups: programming-languages
author: moonbox3
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.author: evmattso
ms.date: 04/02/2025
ms.service: semantic-kernel
---
# Exploring the Semantic Kernel `OpenAIResponsesAgent`

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This feature is in the experimental stage. Features at this stage are under development and subject to change before advancing to the preview or release candidate stage. The current `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is not supported as part of Semantic Kernel's `AgentGroupChat` patterns. Stayed tuned for updates.

Detailed API documentation related to this discussion is available at:

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"

- [`AzureResponsesAgent`](/python/api/semantic-kernel/semantic_kernel.agents.open_ai.azure_responses_agent.azureresponsesagent)
- [`OpenAIResponsesAgent`](/python/api/semantic-kernel/semantic_kernel.agents.open_ai.open_ai_responses_agent.openairesponsesagent)

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Agents are currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end


## What is a Responses Agent?

The OpenAI Responses API is OpenAI's most advanced interface for generating model responses. It supports text and image inputs, and text outputs. You are able to create stateful interactions with the model, using the output of previous responses as input. It is also possible to extend the model's capabilities with built-in tools for file search, web search, computer use, and more.

- [OpenAI Responses API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/responses)
- [Responses API in Azure](/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/responses?tabs=python-secure)


## Preparing Your Development Environment

To proceed with developing an `OpenAIResponsesAgent`, configure your development environment with the appropriate packages.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"

Install the `semantic-kernel` package:

```bash
pip install semantic-kernel
```

> [!Important]
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is supported in Semantic Kernel Python packages 1.27.0 and later.

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Agents are currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end


## Creating an `OpenAIResponsesAgent`

Creating an `OpenAIResponsesAgent` requires first creating a client to be able to talk a remote service.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"

To configure the model used by the OpenAI or Azure OpenAI Responses API, new environment variables are introduced:

```bash
OPENAI_RESPONSES_MODEL_ID=""
AZURE_OPENAI_RESPONSES_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=""
```

Set the appropriate variable depending on which provider you're using.

> [!TIP]
> The minimum allowed Azure OpenAI api version is `2025-03-01-preview`. Please visit the following [link](azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/responses) to view region availability, model support, and further details. 

To create an `AzureResponsesAgent` to use with Azure OpenAI models:

```python
from semantic_kernel.agents import AzureResponsesAgent

# Set up the client and model using Azure OpenAI Resources
client, model = AzureResponsesAgent.setup_resources()

# Create the AzureResponsesAgent instance using the client and the model
agent = AzureResponsesAgent(
    ai_model_id=model,
    client=client,
    instructions="your instructions",
    name="name",
)
```

Alternatively, to create an `OpenAIResponsesAgent` to use with OpenAI models:

```python
from semantic_kernel.agents import OpenAIResponsesAgent

# Set up the client and model using OpenAI Resources
client, model = OpenAIResponsesAgent.setup_resources()

# Create the OpenAIResponsesAgent instance using the client and the model
agent = OpenAIResponsesAgent(
    ai_model_id=model,
    client=client,
    instructions="your instructions",
    name="name",
)
```

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Agents are currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end

## Using an `OpenAIResponsesAgent`

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"
The OpenAI Responses API supports optional remote storage of conversations. By default, when using a `ResponsesAgentThread`, responses are stored remotely. This enables the use of the Responses API's `previous_response_id` for maintaining context across invocations.

Each conversation is treated as a thread, identified by a unique string ID. All interactions with your `OpenAIResponsesAgent` are scoped to this thread identifier.

The underlying mechanics of the Responses API thread are abstracted by the `ResponsesAgentThread` class, which implements the `AgentThread` interface.

The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` currently only supports threads of type `ResponsesAgentThread`.

You can invoke the `OpenAIResponsesAgent` without specifying an `AgentThread`, to start a new thread and a new `AgentThread` will be returned as part of the response.

```python
from semantic_kernel.agents import AzureResponsesAgent

# Set up the client and model using Azure OpenAI Resources
client, model = AzureResponsesAgent.setup_resources()

# Create the AzureResponsesAgent instance using the client and the model
agent = AzureResponsesAgent(
    ai_model_id=model,
    client=client,
    instructions="your instructions",
    name="name",
)

USER_INPUTS = [
    "My name is John Doe.",
    "Tell me a joke",
    "Explain why this is funny.",
    "What have we been talking about?",
]

thread = None

# Generate the agent response(s)
for user_input in USER_INPUTS:
    print(f"# User: '{user_input}'")
    # Invoke the agent for the current message and print the response
    response = await agent.get_response(messages=user_input, thread=thread)
    print(f"# {response.name}: {response.content}")
    # Update the thread so the previous response id is used
    thread = response.thread

# Delete the thread when it is no longer needed
await thread.delete() if thread else None
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Agents are currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end

## Handling Intermediate Messages with an `OpenAIResponsesAgent`

The Semantic Kernel `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is designed to invoke an agent that fulfills user queries or questions. During invocation, the agent may execute tools to derive the final answer. To access intermediate messages produced during this process, callers can supply a callback function that handles instances of `FunctionCallContent` or `FunctionResultContent`.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"

Configuring the `on_intermediate_message` callback within `agent.invoke(...)` or `agent.invoke_stream(...)` allows the caller to receive intermediate messages generated during the process of formulating the agent's final response.

```python
import asyncio
from typing import Annotated

from semantic_kernel.agents import AzureResponsesAgent
from semantic_kernel.contents import AuthorRole, ChatMessageContent, FunctionCallContent, FunctionResultContent
from semantic_kernel.functions import kernel_function

class MenuPlugin:
    """A sample Menu Plugin used for the concept sample."""

    @kernel_function(description="Provides a list of specials from the menu.")
    def get_specials(self) -> Annotated[str, "Returns the specials from the menu."]:
        return """
        Special Soup: Clam Chowder
        Special Salad: Cobb Salad
        Special Drink: Chai Tea
        """

    @kernel_function(description="Provides the price of the requested menu item.")
    def get_item_price(
        self, menu_item: Annotated[str, "The name of the menu item."]
    ) -> Annotated[str, "Returns the price of the menu item."]:
        return "$9.99"

# Define a list to hold callback message content
intermediate_steps: list[ChatMessageContent] = []

# Define an async method to handle the `on_intermediate_message` callback
async def handle_intermediate_steps(message: ChatMessageContent) -> None:
    intermediate_steps.append(message)

async def main():
    # Set up the client and model using Azure OpenAI Resources
    client, model = AzureResponsesAgent.setup_resources()

    # Create the AzureResponsesAgent instance using the client and model
    agent = AzureResponsesAgent(
        ai_model_id=model,
        client=client,
        instructions="your instructions",
        name="name",
        plugins=[MenuPlugin()],
    )

    user_inputs = [
        "Hello", 
        "What is the special soup?", 
        "What is the special drink?", 
        "How much is that?", 
        "Thank you",
    ]

    thread = None

    # Generate the agent response(s)
    for user_input in user_inputs:
        print(f"# {AuthorRole.USER}: '{user_input}'")
        async for response in agent.invoke(
            messages=user_input,
            thread=thread,
            on_intermediate_message=handle_intermediate_steps,
        ):
            thread = response.thread
            print(f"# {response.name}: {response.content}")

    # Delete the thread when it is no longer needed
    await thread.delete() if thread else None

    # Print the intermediate steps
    print("\nIntermediate Steps:")
    for msg in intermediate_steps:
        if any(isinstance(item, FunctionResultContent) for item in msg.items):
            for fr in msg.items:
                if isinstance(fr, FunctionResultContent):
                    print(f"Function Result:> {fr.result} for function: {fr.name}")
        elif any(isinstance(item, FunctionCallContent) for item in msg.items):
            for fcc in msg.items:
                if isinstance(fcc, FunctionCallContent):
                    print(f"Function Call:> {fcc.name} with arguments: {fcc.arguments}")
        else:
            print(f"{msg.role}: {msg.content}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

The following demonstrates sample output from the agent invocation process:

```bash
Sample Output:

# AuthorRole.USER: 'Hello'
# Host: Hi there! How can I assist you with the menu today?
# AuthorRole.USER: 'What is the special soup?'
# Host: The special soup is Clam Chowder.
# AuthorRole.USER: 'What is the special drink?'
# Host: The special drink is Chai Tea.
# AuthorRole.USER: 'How much is that?'
# Host: Could you please specify the menu item you are asking about?
# AuthorRole.USER: 'Thank you'
# Host: You're welcome! If you have any questions about the menu or need assistance, feel free to ask.

Intermediate Steps:
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: Hi there! How can I assist you with the menu today?
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: 
Function Result:> 
        Special Soup: Clam Chowder
        Special Salad: Cobb Salad
        Special Drink: Chai Tea
        for function: MenuPlugin-get_specials
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: The special soup is Clam Chowder.
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: 
Function Result:> 
        Special Soup: Clam Chowder
        Special Salad: Cobb Salad
        Special Drink: Chai Tea
        for function: MenuPlugin-get_specials
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: The special drink is Chai Tea.
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: Could you please specify the menu item you are asking about?
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: You're welcome! If you have any questions about the menu or need assistance, feel free to ask.
```

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Agents are currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Explore Agent Collaboration in Agent Chat](./agent-chat.md)

Commit message:

Add Java agents documentation of initial support

semantic-kernel/Frameworks/agent/responses-agent.md, after:

---
title: Exploring the Semantic Kernel OpenAI Responses Agent
description: An exploration of the definition, behaviors, and usage patterns for a `OpenAIResponsesAgent`
zone_pivot_groups: programming-languages
author: moonbox3
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.author: evmattso
ms.date: 04/02/2025
ms.service: semantic-kernel
---
# Exploring the Semantic Kernel `OpenAIResponsesAgent`

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This feature is in the experimental stage. Features at this stage are under development and subject to change before advancing to the preview or release candidate stage. The current `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is not supported as part of Semantic Kernel's `AgentGroupChat` patterns. Stayed tuned for updates.

Detailed API documentation related to this discussion is available at:

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"

- [`AzureResponsesAgent`](/python/api/semantic-kernel/semantic_kernel.agents.open_ai.azure_responses_agent.azureresponsesagent)
- [`OpenAIResponsesAgent`](/python/api/semantic-kernel/semantic_kernel.agents.open_ai.open_ai_responses_agent.openairesponsesagent)

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Feature currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end


## What is a Responses Agent?

The OpenAI Responses API is OpenAI's most advanced interface for generating model responses. It supports text and image inputs, and text outputs. You are able to create stateful interactions with the model, using the output of previous responses as input. It is also possible to extend the model's capabilities with built-in tools for file search, web search, computer use, and more.

- [OpenAI Responses API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/responses)
- [Responses API in Azure](/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/responses?tabs=python-secure)


## Preparing Your Development Environment

To proceed with developing an `OpenAIResponsesAgent`, configure your development environment with the appropriate packages.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"

Install the `semantic-kernel` package:

```bash
pip install semantic-kernel
```

> [!Important]
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is supported in Semantic Kernel Python packages 1.27.0 and later.

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Feature currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end


## Creating an `OpenAIResponsesAgent`

Creating an `OpenAIResponsesAgent` requires first creating a client to be able to talk a remote service.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"

To configure the model used by the OpenAI or Azure OpenAI Responses API, new environment variables are introduced:

```bash
OPENAI_RESPONSES_MODEL_ID=""
AZURE_OPENAI_RESPONSES_DEPLOYMENT_NAME=""
```

Set the appropriate variable depending on which provider you're using.

> [!TIP]
> The minimum allowed Azure OpenAI api version is `2025-03-01-preview`. Please visit the following [link](azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/responses) to view region availability, model support, and further details. 

To create an `AzureResponsesAgent` to use with Azure OpenAI models:

```python
from semantic_kernel.agents import AzureResponsesAgent

# Set up the client and model using Azure OpenAI Resources
client, model = AzureResponsesAgent.setup_resources()

# Create the AzureResponsesAgent instance using the client and the model
agent = AzureResponsesAgent(
    ai_model_id=model,
    client=client,
    instructions="your instructions",
    name="name",
)
```

Alternatively, to create an `OpenAIResponsesAgent` to use with OpenAI models:

```python
from semantic_kernel.agents import OpenAIResponsesAgent

# Set up the client and model using OpenAI Resources
client, model = OpenAIResponsesAgent.setup_resources()

# Create the OpenAIResponsesAgent instance using the client and the model
agent = OpenAIResponsesAgent(
    ai_model_id=model,
    client=client,
    instructions="your instructions",
    name="name",
)
```

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Feature currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end

## Using an `OpenAIResponsesAgent`

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"
The OpenAI Responses API supports optional remote storage of conversations. By default, when using a `ResponsesAgentThread`, responses are stored remotely. This enables the use of the Responses API's `previous_response_id` for maintaining context across invocations.

Each conversation is treated as a thread, identified by a unique string ID. All interactions with your `OpenAIResponsesAgent` are scoped to this thread identifier.

The underlying mechanics of the Responses API thread are abstracted by the `ResponsesAgentThread` class, which implements the `AgentThread` interface.

The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` currently only supports threads of type `ResponsesAgentThread`.

You can invoke the `OpenAIResponsesAgent` without specifying an `AgentThread`, to start a new thread and a new `AgentThread` will be returned as part of the response.

```python
from semantic_kernel.agents import AzureResponsesAgent

# Set up the client and model using Azure OpenAI Resources
client, model = AzureResponsesAgent.setup_resources()

# Create the AzureResponsesAgent instance using the client and the model
agent = AzureResponsesAgent(
    ai_model_id=model,
    client=client,
    instructions="your instructions",
    name="name",
)

USER_INPUTS = [
    "My name is John Doe.",
    "Tell me a joke",
    "Explain why this is funny.",
    "What have we been talking about?",
]

thread = None

# Generate the agent response(s)
for user_input in USER_INPUTS:
    print(f"# User: '{user_input}'")
    # Invoke the agent for the current message and print the response
    response = await agent.get_response(messages=user_input, thread=thread)
    print(f"# {response.name}: {response.content}")
    # Update the thread so the previous response id is used
    thread = response.thread

# Delete the thread when it is no longer needed
await thread.delete() if thread else None
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Feature currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end

## Handling Intermediate Messages with an `OpenAIResponsesAgent`

The Semantic Kernel `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is designed to invoke an agent that fulfills user queries or questions. During invocation, the agent may execute tools to derive the final answer. To access intermediate messages produced during this process, callers can supply a callback function that handles instances of `FunctionCallContent` or `FunctionResultContent`.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> The `OpenAIResponsesAgent` is coming soon.
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"

Configuring the `on_intermediate_message` callback within `agent.invoke(...)` or `agent.invoke_stream(...)` allows the caller to receive intermediate messages generated during the process of formulating the agent's final response.

```python
import asyncio
from typing import Annotated

from semantic_kernel.agents import AzureResponsesAgent
from semantic_kernel.contents import AuthorRole, ChatMessageContent, FunctionCallContent, FunctionResultContent
from semantic_kernel.functions import kernel_function

class MenuPlugin:
    """A sample Menu Plugin used for the concept sample."""

    @kernel_function(description="Provides a list of specials from the menu.")
    def get_specials(self) -> Annotated[str, "Returns the specials from the menu."]:
        return """
        Special Soup: Clam Chowder
        Special Salad: Cobb Salad
        Special Drink: Chai Tea
        """

    @kernel_function(description="Provides the price of the requested menu item.")
    def get_item_price(
        self, menu_item: Annotated[str, "The name of the menu item."]
    ) -> Annotated[str, "Returns the price of the menu item."]:
        return "$9.99"

# Define a list to hold callback message content
intermediate_steps: list[ChatMessageContent] = []

# Define an async method to handle the `on_intermediate_message` callback
async def handle_intermediate_steps(message: ChatMessageContent) -> None:
    intermediate_steps.append(message)

async def main():
    # Set up the client and model using Azure OpenAI Resources
    client, model = AzureResponsesAgent.setup_resources()

    # Create the AzureResponsesAgent instance using the client and model
    agent = AzureResponsesAgent(
        ai_model_id=model,
        client=client,
        instructions="your instructions",
        name="name",
        plugins=[MenuPlugin()],
    )

    user_inputs = [
        "Hello", 
        "What is the special soup?", 
        "What is the special drink?", 
        "How much is that?", 
        "Thank you",
    ]

    thread = None

    # Generate the agent response(s)
    for user_input in user_inputs:
        print(f"# {AuthorRole.USER}: '{user_input}'")
        async for response in agent.invoke(
            messages=user_input,
            thread=thread,
            on_intermediate_message=handle_intermediate_steps,
        ):
            thread = response.thread
            print(f"# {response.name}: {response.content}")

    # Delete the thread when it is no longer needed
    await thread.delete() if thread else None

    # Print the intermediate steps
    print("\nIntermediate Steps:")
    for msg in intermediate_steps:
        if any(isinstance(item, FunctionResultContent) for item in msg.items):
            for fr in msg.items:
                if isinstance(fr, FunctionResultContent):
                    print(f"Function Result:> {fr.result} for function: {fr.name}")
        elif any(isinstance(item, FunctionCallContent) for item in msg.items):
            for fcc in msg.items:
                if isinstance(fcc, FunctionCallContent):
                    print(f"Function Call:> {fcc.name} with arguments: {fcc.arguments}")
        else:
            print(f"{msg.role}: {msg.content}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

The following demonstrates sample output from the agent invocation process:

```bash
Sample Output:

# AuthorRole.USER: 'Hello'
# Host: Hi there! How can I assist you with the menu today?
# AuthorRole.USER: 'What is the special soup?'
# Host: The special soup is Clam Chowder.
# AuthorRole.USER: 'What is the special drink?'
# Host: The special drink is Chai Tea.
# AuthorRole.USER: 'How much is that?'
# Host: Could you please specify the menu item you are asking about?
# AuthorRole.USER: 'Thank you'
# Host: You're welcome! If you have any questions about the menu or need assistance, feel free to ask.

Intermediate Steps:
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: Hi there! How can I assist you with the menu today?
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: 
Function Result:> 
        Special Soup: Clam Chowder
        Special Salad: Cobb Salad
        Special Drink: Chai Tea
        for function: MenuPlugin-get_specials
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: The special soup is Clam Chowder.
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: 
Function Result:> 
        Special Soup: Clam Chowder
        Special Salad: Cobb Salad
        Special Drink: Chai Tea
        for function: MenuPlugin-get_specials
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: The special drink is Chai Tea.
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: Could you please specify the menu item you are asking about?
AuthorRole.ASSISTANT: You're welcome! If you have any questions about the menu or need assistance, feel free to ask.
```

::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

> Feature currently unavailable in Java.

::: zone-end

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Explore Agent Collaboration in Agent Chat](./agent-chat.md)
