semantic-kernel/concepts/prompts/index.md, before:

---
title: Prompt engineering with Semantic Kernel
description: Understanding the importance of prompts in directing the behavior of AIs
author: johnmaeda
ms.topic: prompt-engineering
ms.author: johnmaeda
ms.date: 09/27/2024
ms.service: semantic-kernel
---
# What are prompts?

Prompts play a crucial role in communicating and directing the behavior of Large Language Models (LLMs) AI. They serve as inputs or queries that users can provide to elicit specific responses from a model. 


## The subtleties of prompting
Effective prompt design is essential to achieving desired outcomes with LLM AI models. Prompt engineering, also known as prompt design, is an emerging field that requires creativity and attention to detail. It involves selecting the right words, phrases, symbols, and formats that guide the model in generating high-quality and relevant texts.

If you've already experimented with ChatGPT, you can see how the model's behavior changes dramatically based on the inputs you provide. For example, the following prompts produce very different outputs:

```Prompt
Please give me the history of humans.
```

```Prompt
Please give me the history of humans in 3 sentences.
```

The first prompt produces a long report, while the second prompt produces a concise response. If you were building a UI with limited space, the second prompt would be more suitable for your needs. Further refined behavior can be achieved by adding even more details to the prompt, but its possible to go too far and produce irrelevant outputs. As a prompt engineer, you must find the right balance between specificity and relevance.

When you work directly with LLM models, you can also use other controls to influence the model's behavior. For example, you can use the `temperature` parameter to control the randomness of the model's output.  Other parameters like top-k, top-p, frequency penalty, and presence penalty also influence the model's behavior.

## Prompt engineering: a new career
Because of the amount of control that exists, prompt engineering is a critical skill for anyone working with LLM AI models. It's also a skill that's in high demand as more organizations adopt LLM AI models to automate tasks and improve productivity. A good prompt engineer can help organizations get the most out of their LLM AI models by designing prompts that produce the desired outputs.

### Becoming a great prompt engineer with Semantic Kernel
Semantic Kernel is a valuable tool for prompt engineering because it allows you to experiment with different prompts and parameters across multiple different models using a common interface. This allows you to quickly compare the outputs of different models and parameters, and iterate on prompts to achieve the desired results.

Once you've become familiar with prompt engineering, you can also use Semantic Kernel to apply your skills to real-world scenarios. By combining your prompts with native functions and connectors, you can build powerful AI-powered applications.

Lastly, by deeply integrating with Visual Studio Code, Semantic Kernel also makes it easy for you to integrate prompt engineering into your existing development processes.

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * Create prompts directly in your preferred code editor.
> * Write tests for them using your existing testing frameworks.
> * And deploy them to production using your existing CI/CD pipelines.

### Additional tips for prompt engineering
Becoming a skilled prompt engineer requires a combination of technical knowledge, creativity, and experimentation. Here are some tips to excel in prompt engineering:

- **Understand LLM AI models:** Gain a deep understanding of how LLM AI models work, including their architecture, training processes, and behavior.
- **Domain knowledge:** Acquire domain-specific knowledge to design prompts that align with the desired outputs and tasks.
- **Experimentation:** Explore different parameters and settings to fine-tune prompts and optimize the model's behavior for specific tasks or domains.
- **Feedback and iteration:** Continuously analyze the outputs generated by the model and iterate on prompts based on user feedback to improve their quality and relevance.
- **Stay updated:** Keep up with the latest advancements in prompt engineering techniques, research, and best practices to enhance your skills and stay ahead in the field.

Prompt engineering is a dynamic and evolving field, and skilled prompt engineers play a crucial role in harnessing the capabilities of LLM AI models effectively.

Commit message:

Add docuimentation showing how to use Handlebars and Liquid prompt templates

semantic-kernel/concepts/prompts/index.md, after:

---
title: Prompt engineering with Semantic Kernel
description: Understanding the importance of prompts in directing the behavior of AIs
author: johnmaeda
ms.topic: prompt-engineering
ms.author: johnmaeda
ms.date: 09/27/2024
ms.service: semantic-kernel
---

# What are prompts?

Prompts play a crucial role in communicating and directing the behavior of Large Language Models (LLMs) AI. They serve as inputs or queries that users can provide to elicit specific responses from a model.

## The subtleties of prompting

Effective prompt design is essential to achieving desired outcomes with LLM AI models. Prompt engineering, also known as prompt design, is an emerging field that requires creativity and attention to detail. It involves selecting the right words, phrases, symbols, and formats that guide the model in generating high-quality and relevant texts.

If you've already experimented with ChatGPT, you can see how the model's behavior changes dramatically based on the inputs you provide. For example, the following prompts produce very different outputs:

```Prompt
Please give me the history of humans.
```

```Prompt
Please give me the history of humans in 3 sentences.
```

The first prompt produces a long report, while the second prompt produces a concise response. If you were building a UI with limited space, the second prompt would be more suitable for your needs. Further refined behavior can be achieved by adding even more details to the prompt, but its possible to go too far and produce irrelevant outputs. As a prompt engineer, you must find the right balance between specificity and relevance.

When you work directly with LLM models, you can also use other controls to influence the model's behavior. For example, you can use the `temperature` parameter to control the randomness of the model's output.  Other parameters like top-k, top-p, frequency penalty, and presence penalty also influence the model's behavior.

## Prompt engineering: a new career

Because of the amount of control that exists, prompt engineering is a critical skill for anyone working with LLM AI models. It's also a skill that's in high demand as more organizations adopt LLM AI models to automate tasks and improve productivity. A good prompt engineer can help organizations get the most out of their LLM AI models by designing prompts that produce the desired outputs.

### Becoming a great prompt engineer with Semantic Kernel

Semantic Kernel is a valuable tool for prompt engineering because it allows you to experiment with different prompts and parameters across multiple different models using a common interface. This allows you to quickly compare the outputs of different models and parameters, and iterate on prompts to achieve the desired results.

Once you've become familiar with prompt engineering, you can also use Semantic Kernel to apply your skills to real-world scenarios. By combining your prompts with native functions and connectors, you can build powerful AI-powered applications.

Lastly, by deeply integrating with Visual Studio Code, Semantic Kernel also makes it easy for you to integrate prompt engineering into your existing development processes.

> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> * Create prompts directly in your preferred code editor.
> * Write tests for them using your existing testing frameworks.
> * And deploy them to production using your existing CI/CD pipelines.

### Additional tips for prompt engineering

Becoming a skilled prompt engineer requires a combination of technical knowledge, creativity, and experimentation. Here are some tips to excel in prompt engineering:

* **Understand LLM AI models:** Gain a deep understanding of how LLM AI models work, including their architecture, training processes, and behavior.
* **Domain knowledge:** Acquire domain-specific knowledge to design prompts that align with the desired outputs and tasks.
* **Experimentation:** Explore different parameters and settings to fine-tune prompts and optimize the model's behavior for specific tasks or domains.
* **Feedback and iteration:** Continuously analyze the outputs generated by the model and iterate on prompts based on user feedback to improve their quality and relevance.
* **Stay updated:** Keep up with the latest advancements in prompt engineering techniques, research, and best practices to enhance your skills and stay ahead in the field.

Prompt engineering is a dynamic and evolving field, and skilled prompt engineers play a crucial role in harnessing the capabilities of LLM AI models effectively.

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Semantic Kernel Prompt Templates](./semantic-kernel-prompt-template-syntax.md)
> [Handlebars Prompt Templates](./handlebars-prompt-templates.md)
> [Liquid Prompt Templates](./liquid-prompt-templates.md)
