semantic-kernel/concepts/plugins/adding-native-plugins.md, before:

---
title: Provide native code to your agents
description: Learn how to add and invoke native code as plugins in Semantic Kernel.
zone_pivot_groups: programming-languages
author: sophialagerkranspandey
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: sopand
ms.date: 07/12/2023
ms.service: semantic-kernel
---

# Add native code as a plugin

The easiest way to provide an AI agent with capabilities that are not natively supported is to wrap native code into a plugin. This allows you to leverage your existing skills as an app developer to extend the capabilities of your AI agents.

Behind the scenes, Semantic Kernel will then use the descriptions you provide, along with reflection, to semantically describe the plugin to the AI agent. This allows the AI agent to understand the capabilities of the plugin and how to interact with it.

## Providing the LLM with the right information

When authoring a plugin, you need to provide the AI agent with the right information to understand the capabilities of the plugin and its functions. This includes:
- The name of the plugin
- The names of the functions
- The descriptions of the functions
- The parameters of the functions
- The schema of the parameters

The value of Semantic Kernel is that it can automatically generate most of this information from the code itself. As a developer, this just means that you must provide the semantic descriptions of the functions and parameters so the AI agent can understand them. If you properly comment and annotate your code, however, you likely already have this information on hand.

Below, we'll walk through the two different ways of providing your AI agent with native code and how to provide this semantic information.

### Defining a plugin using a class

The easiest way to create a native plugin is to start with a class and then add methods annotated with the `KernelFunction` attribute. It is also recommended to liberally use the `Description` annotation to provide the AI agent with the necessary information to understand the function.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
```csharp
public class LightsPlugin
{
   private readonly List<LightModel> _lights;

   public LightsPlugin(LoggerFactory loggerFactory, List<LightModel> lights)
   {
      _lights = lights;
   }

   [KernelFunction("get_lights")]
   [Description("Gets a list of lights and their current state")]
   [return: Description("An array of lights")]
   public async Task<List<LightModel>> GetLightsAsync()
   {
      return _lights;
   }

   [KernelFunction("change_state")]
   [Description("Changes the state of the light")]
   [return: Description("The updated state of the light; will return null if the light does not exist")]
   public async Task<LightModel?> ChangeStateAsync(LightModel changeState)
   {
      // Find the light to change
      var light = _lights.FirstOrDefault(l => l.Id == changeState.Id);

      // If the light does not exist, return null
      if (light == null)
      {
         return null;
      }

      // Update the light state
      light.IsOn = changeState.IsOn;
      light.Brightness = changeState.Brightness;
      light.Color = changeState.Color;

      return light;
   }
}
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"
```python
from typing import List, Optional, Annotated

class LightsPlugin:
    def __init__(self, lights: List[LightModel]):
        self._lights = lights

    @kernel_function
    async def get_lights(self) -> Annotated[List[LightModel], "An array of lights"]:
        """Gets a list of lights and their current state."""
        return self._lights

    @kernel_function
    async def change_state(
        self,
        change_state: LightModel
    ) -> Annotated[Optional[LightModel], "The updated state of the light; will return null if the light does not exist"]:
        """Changes the state of the light."""
        for light in self._lights:
            if light["id"] == change_state["id"]:
                light["is_on"] = change_state.get("is_on", light["is_on"])
                light["brightness"] = change_state.get("brightness", light["brightness"])
                light["hex"] = change_state.get("hex", light["hex"])
                return light
        return None
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

:::code language="java" source="~/../semantic-kernel-samples-java/learnDocs/LightsApp/src/main/java/withbrightness/LightsPlugin.java" id="plugin":::

::: zone-end

> [!TIP]
> Because the LLMs are predominantly trained on Python code, it is recommended to use snake_case for function names and parameters (even if you're using C# or Java). This will help the AI agent better understand the function and its parameters.

If your function has a complex object as an input variable, Semantic Kernel will also generate a schema for that object and pass it to the AI agent. Similar to functions, you should provide `Description` annotations for properties that are non-obvious to the AI. Below is the definition for the `LightState` class and the `Brightness` enum.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
```csharp
using System.Text.Json.Serialization;

public class LightModel
{
   [JsonPropertyName("id")]
   public int Id { get; set; }

   [JsonPropertyName("name")]
   public string? Name { get; set; }

   [JsonPropertyName("is_on")]
   public bool? IsOn { get; set; }

   [JsonPropertyName("brightness")]
   public enum? Brightness { get; set; }

   [JsonPropertyName("color")]
   [Description("The color of the light with a hex code (ensure you include the # symbol)")]
   public string? Color { get; set; }
}

[JsonConverter(typeof(JsonStringEnumConverter))]
public enum Brightness
{
   Low,
   Medium,
   High
}
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"
```python
from typing import TypedDict

class LightModel(TypedDict):
    id: int
    name: str
    is_on: bool | None
    brightness: int | None
    hex: str | None
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

:::code language="java" source="~/../semantic-kernel-samples-java/learnDocs/LightsApp/src/main/java/withbrightness/LightModel.java" id="model":::

::: zone-end

> [!NOTE]
> While this is a "fun" example, it does a good job showing just how complex a plugin's parameters can be. In this single case, we have a complex object with _four_ different types of properties: an integer, string, boolean, and enum. Semantic Kernel's value is that it can automatically generate the schema for this object and pass it to the AI agent and marshal the parameters generated by the AI agent into the correct object.

Once you're done authoring your plugin class, you can add it to the kernel using the `AddFromType<>` or `AddFromObject` methods.

> [!TIP]
> When creating a function, always ask yourself "how can I give the AI additional help to use this function?" This can include using specific input types (avoid strings where possible), providing descriptions, and examples.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
#### Adding a plugin using the `AddFromObject` method

The `AddFromObject` method allows you to add an instance of the plugin class directly to the plugin collection in case you want to directly control how the plugin is constructed.

For example, the constructor of the `LightsPlugin` class requires the list of lights. In this case, you can create an instance of the plugin class and add it to the plugin collection.

```csharp
List<LightModel> lights = new()
   {
      new LightModel { Id = 1, Name = "Table Lamp", IsOn = false, Brightness = Brightness.Medium, Color = "#FFFFFF" },
      new LightModel { Id = 2, Name = "Porch light", IsOn = false, Brightness = Brightness.High, Color = "#FF0000" },
      new LightModel { Id = 3, Name = "Chandelier", IsOn = true, Brightness = Brightness.Low, Color = "#FFFF00" }
   };

kernel.Plugins.AddFromObject(new LightsPlugin(lights));
```

#### Adding a plugin using the `AddFromType<>` method

When using the `AddFromType<>` method, the kernel will automatically use dependency injection to create an instance of the plugin class and add it to the plugin collection.

This is helpful if your constructor requires services or other dependencies to be injected into the plugin. For example, our `LightsPlugin` class may require a logger and a light service to be injected into it instead of a list of lights.

```csharp
public class LightsPlugin
{
   private readonly Logger _logger;
   private readonly LightService _lightService;

   public LightsPlugin(LoggerFactory loggerFactory, LightService lightService)
   {
      _logger = loggerFactory.CreateLogger<LightsPlugin>();
      _lightService = lightService;
   }

   [KernelFunction("get_lights")]
   [Description("Gets a list of lights and their current state")]
   [return: Description("An array of lights")]
   public async Task<List<LightModel>> GetLightsAsync()
   {
      _logger.LogInformation("Getting lights");
      return lightService.GetLights();
   }

   [KernelFunction("change_state")]
   [Description("Changes the state of the light")]
   [return: Description("The updated state of the light; will return null if the light does not exist")]
   public async Task<LightModel?> ChangeStateAsync(LightModel changeState)
   {
      _logger.LogInformation("Changing light state");
      return lightService.ChangeState(changeState);
   }
}
```

With Dependency Injection, you can add the required services and plugins to the kernel builder before building the kernel.

```csharp
var builder = Kernel.CreateBuilder();

// Add dependencies for the plugin
builder.Services.AddLogging(loggingBuilder => loggingBuilder.AddConsole().SetMinimumLevel(LogLevel.Trace));
builder.Services.AddSingleton<LightService>();

// Add the plugin to the kernel
builder.Plugins.AddFromType<LightsPlugin>("Lights");

// Build the kernel
Kernel kernel = builder.Build();
```

### Defining a plugin using a collection of functions

Less common but still useful is defining a plugin using a collection of functions. This is particularly useful if you need to dynamically create a plugin from a set of functions at runtime.

Using this process requires you to use the function factory to create individual functions before adding them to the plugin.

```csharp
kernel.Plugins.AddFromFunctions("time_plugin",
[
    KernelFunctionFactory.CreateFromMethod(
        method: () => DateTime.Now,
        functionName: "get_time",
        description: "Get the current time"
    ),
    KernelFunctionFactory.CreateFromMethod(
        method: (DateTime start, DateTime end) => (end - start).TotalSeconds,
        functionName: "diff_time",
        description: "Get the difference between two times in seconds"
    )
]);
```

### Additional strategies for adding native code with Dependency Injection

If you're working with Dependency Injection, there are additional strategies you can take to create and add plugins to the kernel. Below are some examples of how you can add a plugin using Dependency Injection.

#### Inject a plugin collection

> [!TIP]
> We recommend making your plugin collection a transient service so that it is disposed of after each use since the plugin collection is mutable. Creating a new plugin collection for each use is cheap, so it should not be a performance concern.

```csharp
var builder = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder(args);

// Create native plugin collection
builder.Services.AddTransient((serviceProvider)=>{
   KernelPluginCollection pluginCollection = [];
   pluginCollection.AddFromType<LightsPlugin>("Lights");

   return pluginCollection;
});

// Create the kernel service
builder.Services.AddTransient<Kernel>((serviceProvider)=> {
   KernelPluginCollection pluginCollection = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<KernelPluginCollection>();

   return new Kernel(serviceProvider, pluginCollection);
});
```

> [!TIP]
> As mentioned in the [kernel article](../kernel.md), the kernel is extremely lightweight, so creating a new kernel for each use as a transient is not a performance concern.

#### Generate your plugins as singletons

Plugins are not mutable, so its typically safe to create them as singletons. This can be done by using the plugin factory and adding the resulting plugin to your service collection.

```csharp
var builder = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder(args);

// Create singletons of your plugin
builder.Services.AddKeyedSingleton("LightPlugin", (serviceProvider, key) => {
    return KernelPluginFactory.CreateFromType<LightsPlugin>();
});

// Create a kernel service with singleton plugin
builder.Services.AddTransient((serviceProvider)=> {
    KernelPluginCollection pluginCollection = [
      serviceProvider.GetRequiredKeyedService<KernelPlugin>("LightPlugin")
    ];

    return new Kernel(serviceProvider, pluginCollection);
});
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"
#### Adding a plugin using the `add_plugin` method

The `add_plugin` method allows you to add a plugin instance to the kernel. Below is an example of how you can construct the `LightsPlugin` class and add it to the kernel.

```python
# Create the kernel
kernel = Kernel()

# Create dependencies for the plugin
lights = [
    {"id": 1, "name": "Table Lamp", "is_on": False, "brightness": 100, "hex": "FF0000"},
    {"id": 2, "name": "Porch light", "is_on": False, "brightness": 50, "hex": "00FF00"},
    {"id": 3, "name": "Chandelier", "is_on": True, "brightness": 75, "hex": "0000FF"},
]

# Create the plugin
lights_plugin = LightsPlugin(lights)

# Add the plugin to the kernel
kernel.add_plugin(lights_plugin)
```
::: zone-end


::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

#### Adding a plugin using the `createFromObject` method

The `createFromObject` method allows you to build a kernel plugin from an Object with annotated methods.

:::code language="java" source="~/../semantic-kernel-samples-java/learnDocs/LightsApp/src/main/java/withbrightness/LightsAppNonInteractive.java" id="importplugin":::

This plugin can then be added to a kernel.

:::code language="java" source="~/../semantic-kernel-samples-java/learnDocs/LightsApp/src/main/java/withbrightness/LightsAppNonInteractive.java" id="buildkernel":::

::: zone-end

## Next steps
Now that you know how to create a plugin, you can now learn how to use them with your AI agent. Depending on the type of functions you've added to your plugins, there are different patterns you should follow. For retrieval functions, refer to the [using retrieval functions](./using-data-retrieval-functions-for-rag.md) article. For task automation functions, refer to the [using task automation functions](./using-task-automation-functions.md) article.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn about using retrieval functions](./using-data-retrieval-functions-for-rag.md)

Commit message:

Add tip for built-in parameters

semantic-kernel/concepts/plugins/adding-native-plugins.md, after:

---
title: Provide native code to your agents
description: Learn how to add and invoke native code as plugins in Semantic Kernel.
zone_pivot_groups: programming-languages
author: sophialagerkranspandey
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: sopand
ms.date: 07/12/2023
ms.service: semantic-kernel
---

# Add native code as a plugin

The easiest way to provide an AI agent with capabilities that are not natively supported is to wrap native code into a plugin. This allows you to leverage your existing skills as an app developer to extend the capabilities of your AI agents.

Behind the scenes, Semantic Kernel will then use the descriptions you provide, along with reflection, to semantically describe the plugin to the AI agent. This allows the AI agent to understand the capabilities of the plugin and how to interact with it.

## Providing the LLM with the right information

When authoring a plugin, you need to provide the AI agent with the right information to understand the capabilities of the plugin and its functions. This includes:
- The name of the plugin
- The names of the functions
- The descriptions of the functions
- The parameters of the functions
- The schema of the parameters

The value of Semantic Kernel is that it can automatically generate most of this information from the code itself. As a developer, this just means that you must provide the semantic descriptions of the functions and parameters so the AI agent can understand them. If you properly comment and annotate your code, however, you likely already have this information on hand.

Below, we'll walk through the two different ways of providing your AI agent with native code and how to provide this semantic information.

### Defining a plugin using a class

The easiest way to create a native plugin is to start with a class and then add methods annotated with the `KernelFunction` attribute. It is also recommended to liberally use the `Description` annotation to provide the AI agent with the necessary information to understand the function.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
```csharp
public class LightsPlugin
{
   private readonly List<LightModel> _lights;

   public LightsPlugin(LoggerFactory loggerFactory, List<LightModel> lights)
   {
      _lights = lights;
   }

   [KernelFunction("get_lights")]
   [Description("Gets a list of lights and their current state")]
   [return: Description("An array of lights")]
   public async Task<List<LightModel>> GetLightsAsync()
   {
      return _lights;
   }

   [KernelFunction("change_state")]
   [Description("Changes the state of the light")]
   [return: Description("The updated state of the light; will return null if the light does not exist")]
   public async Task<LightModel?> ChangeStateAsync(LightModel changeState)
   {
      // Find the light to change
      var light = _lights.FirstOrDefault(l => l.Id == changeState.Id);

      // If the light does not exist, return null
      if (light == null)
      {
         return null;
      }

      // Update the light state
      light.IsOn = changeState.IsOn;
      light.Brightness = changeState.Brightness;
      light.Color = changeState.Color;

      return light;
   }
}
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"
```python
from typing import List, Optional, Annotated

class LightsPlugin:
    def __init__(self, lights: List[LightModel]):
        self._lights = lights

    @kernel_function
    async def get_lights(self) -> Annotated[List[LightModel], "An array of lights"]:
        """Gets a list of lights and their current state."""
        return self._lights

    @kernel_function
    async def change_state(
        self,
        change_state: LightModel
    ) -> Annotated[Optional[LightModel], "The updated state of the light; will return null if the light does not exist"]:
        """Changes the state of the light."""
        for light in self._lights:
            if light["id"] == change_state["id"]:
                light["is_on"] = change_state.get("is_on", light["is_on"])
                light["brightness"] = change_state.get("brightness", light["brightness"])
                light["hex"] = change_state.get("hex", light["hex"])
                return light
        return None
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

:::code language="java" source="~/../semantic-kernel-samples-java/learnDocs/LightsApp/src/main/java/withbrightness/LightsPlugin.java" id="plugin":::

::: zone-end

> [!TIP]
> Because the LLMs are predominantly trained on Python code, it is recommended to use snake_case for function names and parameters (even if you're using C# or Java). This will help the AI agent better understand the function and its parameters.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
> [!TIP]
> Your functions can specify `Kernel`, `KernelArguments`, `ILoggerFactory`, `ILogger`, `IAIServiceSelector`, `CultureInfo`, `IFormatProvider`, `CancellationToken` as parameters and these will not be advertised to the LLM and will be automatically set when the function is called.
> If you rely on `KernelArguments` instead of explicit input arguments then your code will be responsible for performing type conversions.
::: zone-end

If your function has a complex object as an input variable, Semantic Kernel will also generate a schema for that object and pass it to the AI agent. Similar to functions, you should provide `Description` annotations for properties that are non-obvious to the AI. Below is the definition for the `LightState` class and the `Brightness` enum.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
```csharp
using System.Text.Json.Serialization;

public class LightModel
{
   [JsonPropertyName("id")]
   public int Id { get; set; }

   [JsonPropertyName("name")]
   public string? Name { get; set; }

   [JsonPropertyName("is_on")]
   public bool? IsOn { get; set; }

   [JsonPropertyName("brightness")]
   public enum? Brightness { get; set; }

   [JsonPropertyName("color")]
   [Description("The color of the light with a hex code (ensure you include the # symbol)")]
   public string? Color { get; set; }
}

[JsonConverter(typeof(JsonStringEnumConverter))]
public enum Brightness
{
   Low,
   Medium,
   High
}
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"
```python
from typing import TypedDict

class LightModel(TypedDict):
    id: int
    name: str
    is_on: bool | None
    brightness: int | None
    hex: str | None
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

:::code language="java" source="~/../semantic-kernel-samples-java/learnDocs/LightsApp/src/main/java/withbrightness/LightModel.java" id="model":::

::: zone-end

> [!NOTE]
> While this is a "fun" example, it does a good job showing just how complex a plugin's parameters can be. In this single case, we have a complex object with _four_ different types of properties: an integer, string, boolean, and enum. Semantic Kernel's value is that it can automatically generate the schema for this object and pass it to the AI agent and marshal the parameters generated by the AI agent into the correct object.

Once you're done authoring your plugin class, you can add it to the kernel using the `AddFromType<>` or `AddFromObject` methods.

> [!TIP]
> When creating a function, always ask yourself "how can I give the AI additional help to use this function?" This can include using specific input types (avoid strings where possible), providing descriptions, and examples.

::: zone pivot="programming-language-csharp"
#### Adding a plugin using the `AddFromObject` method

The `AddFromObject` method allows you to add an instance of the plugin class directly to the plugin collection in case you want to directly control how the plugin is constructed.

For example, the constructor of the `LightsPlugin` class requires the list of lights. In this case, you can create an instance of the plugin class and add it to the plugin collection.

```csharp
List<LightModel> lights = new()
   {
      new LightModel { Id = 1, Name = "Table Lamp", IsOn = false, Brightness = Brightness.Medium, Color = "#FFFFFF" },
      new LightModel { Id = 2, Name = "Porch light", IsOn = false, Brightness = Brightness.High, Color = "#FF0000" },
      new LightModel { Id = 3, Name = "Chandelier", IsOn = true, Brightness = Brightness.Low, Color = "#FFFF00" }
   };

kernel.Plugins.AddFromObject(new LightsPlugin(lights));
```

#### Adding a plugin using the `AddFromType<>` method

When using the `AddFromType<>` method, the kernel will automatically use dependency injection to create an instance of the plugin class and add it to the plugin collection.

This is helpful if your constructor requires services or other dependencies to be injected into the plugin. For example, our `LightsPlugin` class may require a logger and a light service to be injected into it instead of a list of lights.

```csharp
public class LightsPlugin
{
   private readonly Logger _logger;
   private readonly LightService _lightService;

   public LightsPlugin(LoggerFactory loggerFactory, LightService lightService)
   {
      _logger = loggerFactory.CreateLogger<LightsPlugin>();
      _lightService = lightService;
   }

   [KernelFunction("get_lights")]
   [Description("Gets a list of lights and their current state")]
   [return: Description("An array of lights")]
   public async Task<List<LightModel>> GetLightsAsync()
   {
      _logger.LogInformation("Getting lights");
      return lightService.GetLights();
   }

   [KernelFunction("change_state")]
   [Description("Changes the state of the light")]
   [return: Description("The updated state of the light; will return null if the light does not exist")]
   public async Task<LightModel?> ChangeStateAsync(LightModel changeState)
   {
      _logger.LogInformation("Changing light state");
      return lightService.ChangeState(changeState);
   }
}
```

With Dependency Injection, you can add the required services and plugins to the kernel builder before building the kernel.

```csharp
var builder = Kernel.CreateBuilder();

// Add dependencies for the plugin
builder.Services.AddLogging(loggingBuilder => loggingBuilder.AddConsole().SetMinimumLevel(LogLevel.Trace));
builder.Services.AddSingleton<LightService>();

// Add the plugin to the kernel
builder.Plugins.AddFromType<LightsPlugin>("Lights");

// Build the kernel
Kernel kernel = builder.Build();
```

### Defining a plugin using a collection of functions

Less common but still useful is defining a plugin using a collection of functions. This is particularly useful if you need to dynamically create a plugin from a set of functions at runtime.

Using this process requires you to use the function factory to create individual functions before adding them to the plugin.

```csharp
kernel.Plugins.AddFromFunctions("time_plugin",
[
    KernelFunctionFactory.CreateFromMethod(
        method: () => DateTime.Now,
        functionName: "get_time",
        description: "Get the current time"
    ),
    KernelFunctionFactory.CreateFromMethod(
        method: (DateTime start, DateTime end) => (end - start).TotalSeconds,
        functionName: "diff_time",
        description: "Get the difference between two times in seconds"
    )
]);
```

### Additional strategies for adding native code with Dependency Injection

If you're working with Dependency Injection, there are additional strategies you can take to create and add plugins to the kernel. Below are some examples of how you can add a plugin using Dependency Injection.

#### Inject a plugin collection

> [!TIP]
> We recommend making your plugin collection a transient service so that it is disposed of after each use since the plugin collection is mutable. Creating a new plugin collection for each use is cheap, so it should not be a performance concern.

```csharp
var builder = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder(args);

// Create native plugin collection
builder.Services.AddTransient((serviceProvider)=>{
   KernelPluginCollection pluginCollection = [];
   pluginCollection.AddFromType<LightsPlugin>("Lights");

   return pluginCollection;
});

// Create the kernel service
builder.Services.AddTransient<Kernel>((serviceProvider)=> {
   KernelPluginCollection pluginCollection = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<KernelPluginCollection>();

   return new Kernel(serviceProvider, pluginCollection);
});
```

> [!TIP]
> As mentioned in the [kernel article](../kernel.md), the kernel is extremely lightweight, so creating a new kernel for each use as a transient is not a performance concern.

#### Generate your plugins as singletons

Plugins are not mutable, so its typically safe to create them as singletons. This can be done by using the plugin factory and adding the resulting plugin to your service collection.

```csharp
var builder = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder(args);

// Create singletons of your plugin
builder.Services.AddKeyedSingleton("LightPlugin", (serviceProvider, key) => {
    return KernelPluginFactory.CreateFromType<LightsPlugin>();
});

// Create a kernel service with singleton plugin
builder.Services.AddTransient((serviceProvider)=> {
    KernelPluginCollection pluginCollection = [
      serviceProvider.GetRequiredKeyedService<KernelPlugin>("LightPlugin")
    ];

    return new Kernel(serviceProvider, pluginCollection);
});
```
::: zone-end

::: zone pivot="programming-language-python"
#### Adding a plugin using the `add_plugin` method

The `add_plugin` method allows you to add a plugin instance to the kernel. Below is an example of how you can construct the `LightsPlugin` class and add it to the kernel.

```python
# Create the kernel
kernel = Kernel()

# Create dependencies for the plugin
lights = [
    {"id": 1, "name": "Table Lamp", "is_on": False, "brightness": 100, "hex": "FF0000"},
    {"id": 2, "name": "Porch light", "is_on": False, "brightness": 50, "hex": "00FF00"},
    {"id": 3, "name": "Chandelier", "is_on": True, "brightness": 75, "hex": "0000FF"},
]

# Create the plugin
lights_plugin = LightsPlugin(lights)

# Add the plugin to the kernel
kernel.add_plugin(lights_plugin)
```
::: zone-end


::: zone pivot="programming-language-java"

#### Adding a plugin using the `createFromObject` method

The `createFromObject` method allows you to build a kernel plugin from an Object with annotated methods.

:::code language="java" source="~/../semantic-kernel-samples-java/learnDocs/LightsApp/src/main/java/withbrightness/LightsAppNonInteractive.java" id="importplugin":::

This plugin can then be added to a kernel.

:::code language="java" source="~/../semantic-kernel-samples-java/learnDocs/LightsApp/src/main/java/withbrightness/LightsAppNonInteractive.java" id="buildkernel":::

::: zone-end

## Next steps
Now that you know how to create a plugin, you can now learn how to use them with your AI agent. Depending on the type of functions you've added to your plugins, there are different patterns you should follow. For retrieval functions, refer to the [using retrieval functions](./using-data-retrieval-functions-for-rag.md) article. For task automation functions, refer to the [using task automation functions](./using-task-automation-functions.md) article.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn about using retrieval functions](./using-data-retrieval-functions-for-rag.md)
